you know if you've been watching my
videos you've noticed a certain sentence
that I've been saying for years I've
been saying small Flagship phones are a
rare breed and I said that countless
times over the years but today that's no
longer
[Music]
true that breed is now
extinct rip to the small flagship
phone okay we don't even have to rewind
that far to the days when phones were
all smaller across the board but then
really quickly we shot up to 4in screens
then 5in screens were popular then 6-in
flagships were everywhere we never quite
got to 7-in phones being mainstream but
seems like all the biggest flagships now
are teetering right around that but the
funny part is smartphone manufacturers
have had the same realization over and
over again which is that oh smartphone
screens are getting bigger and so
there's room for the smaller alternative
phone to slot in underneath that so like
I just reviewed every single Samsung
Galaxy S ever the year that they started
to get really big they of course also
introduced a Galaxy S mini it's the most
Samsung thing ever but guess what now
that's dead same thing from Apple we
finally got huge iPhones and then sure
enough we got an iPhone Mini for 2 years
but now that's dead too and this kept
happening and happening all over the
place until there was basically just one
good small flagship phone left the Asus
Zen phone The Rare Breed so this thing
the Zen phone 9 came out in 2022 and was
a nearly perfect flagship phone like
seriously Flagship specs incredible
performance physics defying battery life
like Rock Solid cameras this phone won
my small phone of the Year by a
landslide even with the few tiny flaws
it had you know the back material being
a little less durable and it didn't have
wireless charging so then in 2023 they
came out with a squel the Zen phone 10
and that took a good thing and basically
perfected it they fixed the back
material they gave it wireless charging
they upgraded it to the latest Flagship
chips they didn't lose anything nothing
went wrong it was just the singular
excellent flagship phone with a less
than 6-in screen in 2023 so now it's
2024 and the New Zen phone is a gigantic
6.8 in Ultra phone now honestly we
probably should have seen this coming
right when has a small Flagship ever
lasted more than a year or two right but
it just I don't know it hits a little
harder when this was the last small one
like here here's something to think
about right I think apple is You could
argue one of the best supply chain
companies in the world right that's how
they built their business that's how Tim
Cook took the stock price from here to
here that's that's what they do Tim Cook
is a supply chain guy so every time they
come out with a new product or range of
products they have to do the supply
chain thing and figure out exactly how
many they need to produce so they have
these complex studies and their ways of
estimating how many they think will be
sold of every single skew and then
that's how many they need to make not
too many just the perfect amount perfect
Inventory management that's the supply
chain thing that's that's Tim Cook's
thing so in 2020 for the first time
Apple decided to release a new lineup of
four new iPhones it was iPhone 12 iPhone
12 Pro the 12 Pro Max and the 12 Mini of
course the 12 and the 12 Pro are the
same size right in the middle this nice
little sweet spot of the lineup and the
12 Pro Max just being this absolute
maxed out biggest screen biggest price
but then the cheapest most pocketable
new iPhone in the lineup is this cute
new little Min phone now Apple Tim Cook
the all the supply chain knowledge and
the studies they've put in they already
know small phones don't sell
particularly well so they make all of
their changes and line up how many of
each they're going to produce and then
they send it they send it all into
production and you know reviews honestly
for the most part were super positive
across the board people love the mini
phone yes the battery life is weaker on
the smaller phone but to put a flagship
shape and a flagship chip and a flagship
camera in a mini phone it's just such a
rare thing so it was it was extremely
well received Tech reviewers love it
real users are loving it YouTube videos
are loving on the thing and the mini
iPhone still still sold dramatically
less than what Apple had prepared for it
to there are some surveys that have the
mini iPhone at like 5% of the total
sales of the entire new iPhone 12 lineup
sometimes even less I mean it was it was
really really unpopular in the grand
scheme of things to actually buy an
iPhone 12 mini so suddenly it went from
being the darling of the lineup to the
least successful new iPhone of all time
and the headlines were all over this and
sort of wondering if they would even try
this again and they did for one more
year they did an iPhone 13 mini it did
even worse than the 12 mini and then it
was quietly discontinued and guess what
was in its place a brand new plus-sized
iPhone because of course so the moral of
the story is the mini iPhone experiment
reinforced what we already knew which is
not enough people actually buy small
phones to be worth it for a company even
of Apple size to put in all the research
and development to keep making these
things like people think oh this thing
is getting positive reviews so it must
be a success not always true and also
the counter if things are getting
negative reviews from YouTubers that
must be why it died also not always true
so now here we go with the Zen phone now
here's the thing not to Discount the Zen
phone 11 Ultra it's actually a really
good phone in fact it's a perfectly fine
large flagship phone it brings all the
good things about zenphone 10 to a
bigger scale bigger battery awesome
battery life the latest chips and specs
again lightweight software and smooth
smooth performance Rock Solid cameras it
actually added a third telephoto camera
so it's all here it just loses the
biggest thing or I guess the smallest
thing that really made it different just
the fact that it was actually small and
reachable from corner to corner and
didn't require huge Pockets or huge
hands to comfortably daily it all of
that is gone and now it's just like a
Rog phone minus the gamer stuff actually
seriously that's basically what it is
this is the new Zen phone next to the
new r phone if you take away the screen
on the back the 165 HZ display the side
USBC Port the shoulder triggers honestly
it's basically the same phone so this
Zen phone just feels like it's blending
into the sea of other giant phones if I
was guessing zenphone 9 and Zen phone 10
despite how much we love them didn't
sell very well and so they moved on kind
of the same way that iPhone 12 mini and
13 mini didn't sell particularly well
the last part of that equation the fun
fact is even today the most popular new
iPhone is still the pro and pro Max the
super high-end biggest phone and so what
did Asus do they made a super high-end
big phone now to be perfectly super
clear Asus technically hasn't confirmed
that they're not going to make a regular
zenphone 11 but the body language
suggests that this is the only one they
just sort of rename name it the way
Apple just stopped making the mini and
started making a plus we just assume the
mini is gone so there's no solution to
this it's uh right in line with the uh
the Enthusiast phone dilemma whenever a
phone manufacturer comes along and
starts making an Enthusiast phone it
gathers a really really hot audience for
that specific device but it's small and
so when they end up trying to Branch out
and make it more successful they lose
the core fans and I don't know if Z
phone's going to lose the core fans but
people who like it for being small
certainly aren't going to like this one
anymore and this even applies to budget
phones too you know small budget phones
are getting bigger pixel 7A is a 6.1 in
phone the nothing phone 2A that just
came out is literally an ultra sized
phone and uh rumors of the next iPhone
SE also point to that being not small so
the void is now open you know someone
might come along and make another small
flagship phone to briefly fill that void
but don't expect it to last too long
rip the small flagship phone
[Music]